in South Africa Christy was enroute to
see Shelley and put her through her
paces and he's brought some high-tech
equipment so we'll just walk this piece
of rope beyond it's two pulleys down in
the bottom this is an electric lure it
will test Shelley speed and acceleration
this assess closer she'll be able to get
to normal or natural hunting basically
they're running at full speed catching
something and in getting the reward
afterwards inside till it's about 150
meters the average Cheetah Hunt lasts
for around 180 meters so this will be a
realistic test for Shelley all good so
we can just go and collect really know
it's taken Chris two three years of
unwavering dedication to get Shelley to
this point
not every cheater here develops good
enough wild skills to be released but
Christy has high hopes for she's the
base runner that we've got yeah at a
facility even though she was Henry she
still got so much wildness left inner in
it you can especially see when it comes
to the Lear we should just immediately
focus in on that and goes into hunting
mode almost see that excitement she
can't wait for it to happen and you
don't see that with all the Cheetahs a
lot rides on how she performs you can
see that she knows what's gonna happen
now he's already starting to focusing on
winning to move when it's gonna happen
as soon as the lure goes Shelley's
instinct to chase should kick in
cheetahs can accelerate from zero to 60
miles per hour in less than three
seconds rivaling the fastest sports car
propelling Shelley forward our fast
twitch muscle fibers generating four
times more explosive power than a
human's a flexible spine and long
spindly legs produce a stride up to
eight meters half of which is spent in
the air just like a successful hunt in
the wild Shelley gets her reward after a
run shall get it smashed into simulates
it she's hunted now she gets her a piece
of meat basically but this incredible
physical feat takes its toll most hunts
lasts less than a minute because
cheetahs are in danger of overheating
she won't start walking around
immediately and that's in awhile to be
their most vulnerable because not inside
lying around sleeping and then
potentially a lion y-you know something
could come in
you